1. What is OS? It is a computer program that manages computer hardware and software, to run them efficiently.
2. Main task of OS? execute programs on behalf of user through interface.
3. Redundant arrays of Independent Disks.(Raid) -> ways in which different array members(disks) combine to provide data.
4. How can you do raid? one can either copy data(disk mirroring) or (disk striping)
5. What are the parameters which help determine which type of raid is better?
   . Fault-tolerance - If for example one disk fail. What is the level of redundancy that will help to provide. 
   . Performance - read and write speed should be high.
   . Capacity - available Capacity to store should be high.

6. Virtual Memory - It is an extension of Physical RAM on disk that can be used as RAM for applcations that require more resources.
7. Thread in OS - A big task can be broken into multiple small tasks. Those small tasks can be independently done by many threads. A thread is the smallest unit of execution in OS. 
   . What constitues a thread - thread ID, program counter, stack, registers.

8. What is the diffrence between program and process?
   . Program is any executible file stored in memory.
   . When a program is loaded to RAM for execution it is called process.

9. States of a process.
   . New State - when a program is loaded to memory it is called new state.
   . Ready state - when a process is ready with all resources and information for it to run on CPU.
   . Running State - when instructions inside a process is currently being run by CPU.
   . Waiting State - when a process's execution is currently being stopped due to any reason either it waiting for another process to complete or waiting for any other information.
   . Terminated State - a process when completed is called terminated state/ or its execution is stopped by OS.

10. Definition of preemptive - take control and take action is called preemptive. Preemptive strike by military.

11. Difference between paging and segmentation - Dividing programs memory into fixed sized blocks is called paging and Segmentation is logical partitioning of program's memory into data, code and stack;

12. Thrashing in OS - it is a situation in OS where CPU spends more of it's time in loading progams to memory rather than actual instruction execution.
    . It happens when too much processes are active and user is switching between it.

13. Multiprogramming - Paradigm of processing when multiple programs are running on CPU, it is more related to programs. Multiple programs that are running on CPU.

14. Multiprocessing - Multiple processors doing different part of program to execute it efficiently.

15. Multitasking - Different tasks running on single processor to improve efficiency, it is more related to user - experience, user is performing multiple tasks at once. listening to songs, writing on text editor, downloading files.
    . Time sharing technique is used.
    . CPU jumps between different processes very fast such that it seems that all processes are running simultaneously.
    . This jumping between tasks is called context switching.

16. Zombie process - a process that has completed it's execution and terminated but it is present in process table. Process table is table that contains information about which process are about to be executed.

17. Kernel - It is a computer program, that interacts with hardware and lies between hardware and OS. It is first thing that is loaded when computer turns on.
    . It interacts with Disks, CPU, RAM, drivers, peripherals,

18. Components of process - 1. Compiled code 2. Data 3. Heap for dynamic memory allocation 4. Stack for recursion stack.

19. Spooling in OS - 1. Simultaneous peripherals operations online - It is defined as putting various jobs of I/O to memory.

